Natural Language PROCESSING(NLP):
NLP is the ability of machine to understand what the human are writing and speaking.

1.LDA :Latent Dirichlet Allocation:
LDA is a statistical model used for observations of data.
ldda will be in a group format.

the main reason of observation is to chech the data are similar.



2.Structured Data Extraction:
Structured data:the data which is in a structured format

eg:sql,DB

Source of data contain a large number of groups...the information gained will be more.

we will extract only the structured data from a large number of group.

3.Lexicons:

lexicons serves as dictionary,for extracting data.

we can use this lexicon for prediction(predicting data and task)

we can also use this lexicons for the bag of words.


4.Emotion mining:
This methods allow us to make most negative--positive sentiment data from the text.













Dimension Reduction:
This technology used in order to assume many observation,
in order to collect large amount of data or information.
observation maybe a curve, image, video,,,

High Dimension:
Automatic data collection,,we will not know which data are relevent data.

Principal Component analysis:
to analyse which are all relevent data from the observation.
PCA can also be used in data to explore as well as to visualize a data easy.



Standardized shorctcut of PCA:
before we used covariance matrix......

now we are going to use Correaltion matrix

Computing principal score:



Matrix transpose:

Matrix multiplication:

Data compression:


Forecasting:this technique is used to predict the future aspects of the business..


Time series analysis:
predict the value or data based on time or period

eg:
last 6 month data.........



components of time series:

1.trend:


2.cyclical:

3.seasonal:

4.irregular:

Decomposition of components:
when we use a decomposition of time series we will get all time series components.

two methods:
1.Additive:


2.Multipliative:

Technique for forecasting:


1.simple moving average:

2.Weighted moving average:

3.exponential smoothing:

4.Holts exponential smoothing:


5.Holts winter model:












